Dinner's almost ready. Please tell Shem, we'll be right there, Mom.
Well, Abram, before we go in, let me tell you the rest.
I was just a young man back then.
After Jehovah gave my father the command to build the ark,
it took decades to complete.
Then we had to gather food and all the animals.
We had no idea how long we would be inside.
But when Jehovah closed the ark's door,
we were ready.
So were you scared?
Abram, I know you're just a boy,
but things have happened to you, they've scared you, right?
I was older than you, but I was still scared.
When we were building the ark, people thought we were crazy.
And then, just like Jehovah said it would, it happened.
Only eight were saved.
My parents, my brothers, and our wives.
We are living proof that Jehovah's word never fails.
Jehovah promised my father that he would never again
destroy all life of a global flood.
I want you to know I was scared, but I know to trust Jehovah.
When Jehovah promises something that we've never seen,
it takes a special quality to believe it.
Do you know what that quality is?
Feast.
Abram and Sarah lived in earth,
a city full of people who worshiped pagan gods.
But like Noah and Shem,
Abram and Sarah worshiped Jehovah.
Abram, go out from your land,
and from your relatives,
and come into the land that I will show you.
Where will we live?
We'll be so far away from our family.
I have every confidence that if we do,
a Jehovah asks that things will turn out fine.
Well, whatever it is,
I will be by your side.
There is nothing I would even sacrifice for Jehovah.
I know.
Abram and Sarah left earth.
They lived in hay ran for some time.
But Jehovah told Abram to keep moving.
Living in tents was not easy.
But the caravan gradually settled into a routine of travel.
Abram's nephew Lot was like a brother to him.
But as their flocks grew large,
tension grew between their groups.
Please, there should be no quarreling between me and you
for we are brothers.
It is not the whole land available to you.
Please separate from me.
If you go to the left,
then I will go to the right.
Though it must have hurt their hearts,
they agreed to part ways.
Lot moved east to the district of the Jordan.
Where the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were located.
After Lot had gone,
Jehovah made a promise about Abram's future.
Raise your eyes, please,
and look from the place where you are.
To the north and south.
East and west.
Because all the land that you see,
I will give to you and your offspring as a lasting possession.
And I will make your offspring like the dust particles of the earth.
Abram, do not fear Abram.
I am a shield for you.
Your reward will be very great.
Sauron Lord Jehovah,
what will you give me,
saying that I continue childless?
Go outside.
Look up.
Please,
to the heavens and count the stars.
If you are able to do so,
so your offspring will become.
Later,
Jehovah changed Abram's name to Abraham,
which means father of a multitude.
He also changed Sarah's name to Sarah,
which means princess.
Every day,
these new names would remind them of Jehovah's promise.
And Jehovah didn't stop there.
He sent three angels to reassure Abraham
with even more good news.
Within the year,
he and Sarah would have a son,
but they also brought other news.
Through one of the angels,
Jehovah said,
The outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is indeed great,
and their sin is very heavy.
Will you really sweep away the righteous with the wicked?
Suppose there are fifty righteous men within the city.
Will you then sweep them away?
And not pardon the place for the sake of the fifty righteous
who are inside it?
It's unthinkable of you.
Will the judge of all the earth not do it as right?
If I find Sodom fifty righteous men in the city,
I will pardon the whole place for their sake.
Please hear I presume to speak to Jehovah
whereas I am dust and ashes.
Suppose a fifty righteous should lack five.
Because the five will you destroy the whole city?
Abraham knew that the judge of all the earth always does what is right,
but knowing and trusting are two different things.
I will not destroy it for the sake of the twenty.
Jehovah, please do not become hot with anger,
but let me speak just once more.
Suppose only ten are found there.
I will not destroy it for the sake of the ten.
I have seen in my life that everything that Jehovah promises
always comes true.
Throughout your life,
have full confidence Jehovah will always do what is right.